v5.11.0 (#4827)
mui/mui-x: CHANGELOG.md

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## v5.11.0

_May 12, 2022_

We'd like to offer a big thanks to the 14 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

- 🚀 Premium plan release

  We’re happy to announce that the Premium plan is [finally out](https://mui.com/pricing/)!
  With it, MUI X officially steps up to the next level, supporting the most advanced use cases for UI components.

>   This plan is available by using the new package `@mui/x-data-grid-premium` which is now containing the row grouping end the excel export.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This plan is available by using the new package `@mui/x-data-grid-premium` which is now containing the row grouping and the excel export.
```

>   This plan is available by using the new package `@mui/x-data-grid-premium` which is now containing the row grouping end the excel export.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  This plan is available by using the new `@mui/x-data-grid-premium` package,  which contains the row grouping and the Excel export.
```

>   If you were already using the row grouping feature, you can upgrade by installing `@mui/x-data-grid-premium`, replace `DataGridPro` by `DataGridPremium` as follow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If you were already using the row grouping feature, you can upgrade by [installing](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/getting-started/#installation) `@mui/x-data-grid-premium` and replace `DataGridPro` with `DataGridPremium`, as follow.
```

>   Notice that the experimental flag is not required anymore

Reviewer 2: The editing API still requires it. Better to not leave room for confusion.

```suggestion
  Note that the experimental flag is not required anymore to use the row grouping.
```

  ```diff

>   -import { DataGridPro } from '@mui/x-data-grid-pro'
>   +import { DataGridPremium } from '@mui/x-data-grid-premium'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  -import { DataGridPro } from '@mui/x-data-grid-pro';
  +import { DataGridPremium } from '@mui/x-data-grid-premium';
```

  -<DataGridPro experimentalFeatures={{ rowGrouping: true }} />
  +<DataGridPremium />
  ```

  For more informations about the new pricing model, please have a look at the blog post.

- 👔 Add Excel export

- 🔎 Quick filtering

  You can now add a quick filtering search bar to your grid.
  To do so, either pass `showQuickFilter` prop to the `<GridToolbar />` or use the `<GridToolbarQuickFilter />` component in your custom toolbar.

  More information about how to customize the filtering logic in the [documentation](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/filtering/#quick-filter)

>   ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45398769/167364837-6d7b232c-50c9-49a9-9366-26c6d2952716.png)

Reviewer 3: The image is a bit blurry, this one should look better
<img width="724" alt="Screenshot 2022-05-10 at 20 43 18" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13808724/167700105-5a5acc7c-5463-4871-8514-3d09e2f365ae.png">

>   ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/45398769/167364837-6d7b232c-50c9-49a9-9366-26c6d2952716.png)

Author: ```suggestion
  ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13808724/167700105-5a5acc7c-5463-4871-8514-3d09e2f365ae.png)
```

- 🐞 Bugs fixes

> ### `@mui/x-data-grid@v5.11.0` / `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@v5.11.0` / `@mui/x-data-grid-premium@v5.11.0`

Reviewer: Probably worth adding a Breaking change paragraph about the Row Grouping

#### Changes

- [DataGrid] Add TypeScript support to the `sx` prop in inner components (#4743) @lindapaiste
- [DataGrid] Add props to control cell mode (#4210) @m4theushw
- [DataGrid] Add quick filtering engine (#4317) @alexfauquette
- [DataGrid] Check focus validity whenever the rows in state changes (#4683) @flaviendelangle

> - [DataGrid] Fix columnHeaderDrag uses cellDragOver and cellDragOver run infinite scroll (#4735) @DjoSmer

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Fix infinite scroll when dragging column header cell over row cell (#4735) @DjoSmer
```
If I understood it correctly

- [DataGrid] Fix scroll jump when using keyboard navigation (#4515) @cherniavskii
- [DataGrid] Improve sorting accessibility (#4379) @cherniavskii

> - [DataGrid] New api method: `getRowGroupChildren` (#4304) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] New `getRowGroupChildren` API method (#4304) @flaviendelangle
```

- [DataGridPro] Fix detail panel not taking full width (#4610) @cherniavskii
- [DataGridPremium] Add Excel export (#3981) @alexfauquette
- [DataGridPremium] Bootstrap `@mui/x-data-grid-premium` (#4223) @flaviendelangle
- [DataGridPremium] Fix Excel date serialization when row grouping is enabled (#4774) @cherniavskii
- [l10n] Improve German (de-DE) locale (#4748) @sebastianfrey
- [l10n] Improve German (de-DE) locale (#4668) @izu-co

### `@mui/x-date-pickers@5.0.0-alpha.3` / `@mui/x-date-pickers-pro@5.0.0-alpha.3`

#### Breaking changes

- Rework the auto-closing behavior of the pickers.
  
  The `disableCloseOnSelect` prop has been replaced by a new `closeOnSelect` prop which has the opposite behavior.
  The default behavior remains the same (close after the last step on desktop but not on mobile).

  ```diff
  // If you don't want to close after the last step
  -<DatePicker disableCloseOnSelect={false} />
  +<DatePicker closeOnSelect />

  // If you want to close after the last step
  -<DatePicker disableCloseOnSelect />
  +<DatePicker closeOnSelect={false} />
  ```

#### Changes

- [DatePicker] Make month year order changeable in header (#4695) @gky360

> - [DateRangePicker] Open view on click, Enter or Space instead of focus (#4747) @alexfauquette

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [DateRangePicker] Open view on click, <kbd>Enter</kbd> or <kbd>Space</kbd> instead of focus (#4747) @alexfauquette
```

- [DateRangePicker] Refacto tests (#4745) @flaviendelangle
- [DateRangePicker] Remove `orientation` prop (#4665) @m4theushw
- [MonthPicker] New prop `shouldDisableMonth` (#4708) @someone635
- [TimePicker] Disable and invalidate date with minutes not matching `minutesStep` (#4726) @flaviendelangle
- [TimePicker] Refacto `isTimeDisabled` method (#4688) @flaviendelangle
- [pickers] Add details in invalid mask error (#4501) @alexfauquette
- [pickers] Add explicit interfaces for components slots and components slots props (#4589) @flaviendelangle
- [pickers] Add missing `peerDependencies` for `yarn pnp` users (#4763) @nate-summercook

> - [pickers] Add overrides to PickersArrowSwitcher (#4672) @m4theushw

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [pickers] Add overrides to `PickersArrowSwitcher` (#4672) @m4theushw
```

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## v5.11.0

_May 12, 2022_

We'd like to offer a big thanks to the 14 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

- 🚀 Premium plan release

>   We’re happy to announce that the Premium plan is [finally out](https://mui.com/pricing/)!

Reviewer 4: Would this make more sense?

```suggestion
  We’re happy to announce that the Premium plan is [finally out](https://mui.com/blog/premium-plan-release/)!
```

  With it, MUI X officially steps up to the next level, supporting the most advanced use cases for UI components.

>   This plan is available by using the new `@mui/x-data-grid-premium` package,  which contains the row grouping and the Excel export.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  This plan is available by using the new `@mui/x-data-grid-premium` package, which contains the row grouping and the Excel export features.
```

  If you were already using the row grouping feature, you can upgrade by [installing](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/getting-started/#installation) `@mui/x-data-grid-premium` and replace `DataGridPro` with `DataGridPremium`, as follow.
  Note that the experimental flag is not required anymore to use the row grouping.

  ```diff
  -import { DataGridPro } from '@mui/x-data-grid-pro';
  +import { DataGridPremium } from '@mui/x-data-grid-premium';

  -<DataGridPro experimentalFeatures={{ rowGrouping: true }} />
  +<DataGridPremium />
  ```

>   For more informations about the new pricing model please have a look at the [blog post](https://mui.com/blog/premium-plan-release).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  For more information about the new pricing model please have a look at the [blog post](https://mui.com/blog/premium-plan-release/#the-new-licensing-model).
```

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## v5.11.0

_May 12, 2022_

We'd like to offer a big thanks to the 15 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

- 🚀 Premium plan release

  We’re happy to announce that the Premium plan is [finally out](https://mui.com/blog/premium-plan-release/)!
  With it, MUI X officially steps up to the next level, supporting the most advanced use cases for UI components.

>   This plan is available by using the new `@mui/x-data-grid-premium` package, which contains the row grouping and the Excel export features.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  This plan is available through the new `@mui/x-data-grid-premium` package, which contains the row grouping and the Excel export features.
```

>   If you were already using the row grouping feature, you can upgrade by [installing](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/getting-started/#installation) `@mui/x-data-grid-premium` and replace `DataGridPro` with `DataGridPremium`, as follow.

Reviewer 6: Small suggestion at the end of this sentence.

```suggestion
  If you were already using the row grouping feature, you can upgrade by [installing](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/getting-started/#installation) `@mui/x-data-grid-premium` and replace `DataGridPro` with `DataGridPremium`, as follows.
```

  Note that the experimental flag is not required anymore to use the row grouping.

  ```diff
  -import { DataGridPro } from '@mui/x-data-grid-pro';
  +import { DataGridPremium } from '@mui/x-data-grid-premium';

  -<DataGridPro experimentalFeatures={{ rowGrouping: true }} />
  +<DataGridPremium />
  ```

  For more information about the new pricing model please have a look at the [blog post](https://mui.com/blog/premium-plan-release/#the-new-licensing-model).

- 👔 Add Excel export

- 🔎 Quick filtering

  You can now add a quick filtering search bar to your grid.
  To do so, either pass `showQuickFilter` prop to the `<GridToolbar />` or use the `<GridToolbarQuickFilter />` component in your custom toolbar.

>   More information about how to customize the filtering logic in the [documentation](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/filtering/#quick-filter)

Reviewer 6: Add a missing word here.

```suggestion
  More information about how to customize the filtering logic is in the [documentation](https://mui.com/x/react-data-grid/filtering/#quick-filter)
```

  ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13808724/167700105-5a5acc7c-5463-4871-8514-3d09e2f365ae.png)

- 🐞 Bugs fixes

### `@mui/x-data-grid@v5.11.0` / `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@v5.11.0` / `@mui/x-data-grid-premium@v5.11.0`

#### Breaking changes

- Moving row grouping to premium package
  

>   The experimental feature `rowGrouping` is deprecated, and will be removed in the next version.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The use of `rowGrouping` in the `@mui/x-data-grid-pro` package is deprecated. The experimental flag will be removed in v5.12.
```

Author: Maybe @mbrookes has an opinion on this point

>   To continue using it, you should move to the `@mui/x-data-grid-premium` package.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  To continue using it, we encourage you to upgrade the `@mui/x-data-grid-premium` package.
```

#### Changes

- [DataGrid] Add TypeScript support to the `sx` prop in inner components (#4743) @lindapaiste
- [DataGrid] Add props to control cell mode (#4210) @m4theushw
- [DataGrid] Add quick filtering engine (#4317) @alexfauquette
- [DataGrid] Check focus validity whenever the rows in state changes (#4683) @flaviendelangle
- [DataGrid] Fix infinite scroll when dragging column header cell over row cell (#4735) @DjoSmer
- [DataGrid] Fix scroll jump when using keyboard navigation (#4515) @cherniavskii
- [DataGrid] Improve sorting accessibility (#4379) @cherniavskii
- [DataGrid] New `getRowGroupChildren` API method (#4304) @flaviendelangle
- [DataGrid] Publish `preferencePanelClose` event only once when clicking on another panel button (#4810) @flaviendelangle

> - [DataGrid] Update focused action if the currently focused one is removed (#4694) @m4theushw

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Update focused action if the currently focused one is removed (#4694) @m4theushw
- [DataGrid] Add `onChange` callback to edit components (#4621) @m4theushw
- [DataGrid] Add `keepNonExistentRowsSelected` prop (#4786) @willsoto
```

- [DataGridPro] Fix detail panel not taking full width (#4610) @cherniavskii
- [DataGridPremium] Add Excel export (#3981) @alexfauquette
- [DataGridPremium] Bootstrap `@mui/x-data-grid-premium` (#4223) @flaviendelangle
- [DataGridPremium] Fix Excel date serialization when row grouping is enabled (#4774) @cherniavskii
- [l10n] Improve German (de-DE) locale (#4748) @sebastianfrey
- [l10n] Improve German (de-DE) locale (#4668) @izu-co

### `@mui/x-date-pickers@5.0.0-alpha.3` / `@mui/x-date-pickers-pro@5.0.0-alpha.3`

#### Breaking changes

- Rework the auto-closing behavior of the pickers.
  
  The `disableCloseOnSelect` prop has been replaced by a new `closeOnSelect` prop which has the opposite behavior.
  The default behavior remains the same (close after the last step on desktop but not on mobile).

  ```diff
   // If you don't want to close after the last step
  -<DatePicker disableCloseOnSelect={false} />
  +<DatePicker closeOnSelect />

   // If you want to close after the last step
  -<DatePicker disableCloseOnSelect />
  +<DatePicker closeOnSelect={false} />
  ```

#### Changes

> - [DatePicker] Ignore <kbd>Escape</kbd> when the picker is already closed (#4770) @mikewolfd

Reviewer 3: @alexfauquette You should merge master into release PR, because changes from some PRs mentioned in the changelog are missing

Author: I do not understand why should I merging with master. 

This commit from #4770 is not in this branch (`alexfauquette:v5.11.0`) but it is not a problem because this branch will be squash and merged on master

The tag v5.11.0 will be set on the generated commit, so it will be on top of every other commits

Reviewer 3: Right, my bad.
I was just thinking that it might get out of sync, but after giving it a second thought it's not going to be the case :)

Reviewer 3: @alexfauquette 
One thing to consider though is that green CI check on this PR can be a false positive if it's not up to date with master.

### Docs

- [docs] Add `scopePathNames` property to column page (#4811) @flaviendelangle
- [docs] Add label to each demo (#4667) @m4theushw
- [docs] Correctly capitalize <kbd>Ctrl</kbd> (#4707) @oliviertassinari
- [docs] Fix documentation on `ampm` prop (#4846) @alexfauquette
- [docs] Generate the event documentation from `GridEventLookup` (#4725) @flaviendelangle
- [docs] Keep columns section expanded when switching between pages (#4816) @cherniavskii
- [docs] Move `useKeepGroupingColumnsHidden` on `@mui/x-data-grid-premium` (#4319) @flaviendelangle
- [docs] Remove legacy pages for old URLs (#4575) @m4theushw
- [docs] Remove remaining pages in `docs/pages/api-docs` folder (#4709) @m4theushw
- [docs] SEO fixes (#4711) @oliviertassinari
- [docs] Set type number to movie column year (#4753) @flaviendelangle
- [docs] Simplify server examples (#4186) @alexfauquette
- [docs] Small typo (#4670) @flaviendelangle
- [docs] Split the 'Columns' page (#4600) @flaviendelangle
- [docs] Stop using `GridEvents` enum in documentation (#4699) @flaviendelangle
- [docs] Update mono repo to get copy code block (#4691) @siriwatknp

> - [docs] Update the feature table in the Getting Started page of the data grid (#4619) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [docs] Update the feature table in the Getting Started page of the data grid (#4619) @flaviendelangle
- [docs] Add demo for Premium (#4750) @m4theushw
```

- [docs] Remove legacy pages for old URLs (#4575) @m4theushw
- [docs] Remove remaining pages in `docs/pages/api-docs` folder (#4709) @m4theushw
- [docs] SEO fixes (#4711) @oliviertassinari
- [docs] Set type number to movie column year (#4753) @flaviendelangle
- [docs] Simplify server examples (#4186) @alexfauquette
- [docs] Small typo (#4670) @flaviendelangle
- [docs] Split the 'Columns' page (#4600) @flaviendelangle
- [docs] Stop using `GridEvents` enum in documentation (#4699) @flaviendelangle
- [docs] Update mono repo to get copy code block (#4691) @siriwatknp
- [docs] Update the feature table in the Getting Started page of the data grid (#4619) @flaviendelangle
- [docs] Add demo for Premium (#4750) @m4theushw

### Core

- [core] Check if `process` is available (#4193) @m4theushw
- [core] Prevent out-of-memory when type-checking in CI (#4697) @flaviendelangle
- [core] Remove `rowsCache` from state (#4480) @m4theushw
- [core] Rework `DayPicker` api (#4783) @flaviendelangle
- [core] Update `x-license-pro` license to handle premium package (#4315) @DanailH
- [core] Update monorepo & version (#4789) @oliviertassinari
- [core] Update monorepo (#4772) @flaviendelangle

> - [core] Stop using `GridEvents` enum (#4698, #4696, #4685) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [core] Stop using `GridEvents` enum (#4698, #4696, #4685) @flaviendelangle
- [core] Update monorepo (#4854) @cherniavskii 
```

#### Breaking changes

- Moving row grouping to premium package

  The experimental feature `rowGrouping` is deprecated, and will be removed in the next version.
  To continue using it, we encourage you to upgrade the `@mui/x-data-grid-premium` package.

#### Changes

- [DataGrid] Add TypeScript support to the `sx` prop in inner components (#4743) @lindapaiste
- [DataGrid] Add props to control cell mode (#4210) @m4theushw
- [DataGrid] Add quick filtering engine (#4317) @alexfauquette
- [DataGrid] Check focus validity whenever the rows in state changes (#4683) @flaviendelangle
- [DataGrid] Fix infinite scroll when dragging column header cell over row cell (#4735) @DjoSmer
- [DataGrid] Fix scroll jump when using keyboard navigation (#4515) @cherniavskii
- [DataGrid] Improve sorting accessibility (#4379) @cherniavskii
- [DataGrid] New `getRowGroupChildren` API method (#4304) @flaviendelangle
- [DataGrid] Publish `preferencePanelClose` event only once when clicking on another panel button (#4810) @flaviendelangle
- [DataGrid] Update focused action if the currently focused one is removed (#4694) @m4theushw
- [DataGrid] Add `onChange` callback to edit components (#4621) @m4theushw

> - [DataGrid] Add `keepNonExistentRowsSelected` prop (#4786) @willsoto

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Add `keepNonExistentRowsSelected` prop (#4786) @willsoto
- [DataGrid] Prevent crash if row is removed with click (#4831) @m4theushw
```

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## v5.11.0

> 
> _May 12, 2022_

Author: ```suggestion

_May 13, 2022_
```
